# financial-calculations

The purpose of this repository is to hold some of my financial planning tools.
The tools listed here are for my own practice with python and aren't necessarily for any particular end user.

any feedback is welcomed and feel free to use the code contained in here for your own projects (none of the concepts or equations here are completely original though the code for them is).

The particular piece in here that I'm most enamored of is the function: 'RetireCalc()' from Retirement_Calculator_V2.py. This paragraph is just about this particular function, how it works, what shortcomings it currently possess, and future goals. I had written this function a while back when I was trying to figure out the optimal amount to contribute annually towards my retirement goals. I found several similar tools online but none that allowed the user to modify all the variables that I had wanted (rate of return, years towards retirement, inflation rate). This function has several steps, first it gets from the user how much per year they would want to live on (should inflation not exist), years towards retirement, estimated rate of return, and present amount saved. First, the function will determine what their desired income would look like by the time they would retire by taking the rate of inflation and years to retirement. Then the function will figure out how large a total investment (or future value) would be needed to generate that much in interest per year (after subtracting for inflation). Once all this is calculated the final step of the function is to calculate how much one would need to save per year to reach the final retirement savings goal. the version of this is my second version, the primary changes were focused on using industry consistent terminology (for instance changing the variable saving goal to final value) for the variables. there are several commented out print statements at the end of the function, these are saved from bug testing. there is one bug still present in the code, and that is that if one already has more than enough saved for retirement the program will recommend making early withdrawls, which is obviously a poor idea. later I plan to revisit this function and do a few things, one break this one function down into multiple functions with one mast function which calls the others (that way you can look into and answer more focused questions without running through the whole function). I would also like to make the output a bit cleaner and more readable. and the final goal would be to create a graphic output to go along with the function that would show 4 or 5 different hypothesis for what that retirement saving might look like over time (essentially by using the random library to show include downswings and upswings in the market at random intervals that average out over time to represent the cyclical movement of the market).
